it's a very exciting time the next fifty
years will be the golden age of
cardiovascular disease
the opportunities to prevent heart and
vascular disease to make people's lives
who have heart and vascular disease
better and easier and to correct the
ravages of heart and vascular disease by
regenerating hearts in their entirety
are enormous
as a patient said to me we're not
building organs we're building hope it's
phenomenal to be able to imagine a time
when we can take our knowledge of stem
cells our knowledge of organs and build
solutions for people with heart disease
truly rebuild a functioning heart that
we can transplant so that we're not only
the creators of the total artificial
heart but the creators of the total bio
artificial heart that lets you live the
rest of your life with the solution
built at thi the progress that is being
made in the field of prevention of a
stroke and treatment of common
arrhythmias with the revolution that was
made by catheter ablation techniques is
exciting the progress will help patients
have safer faster and more curative
results from the procedures we do every
day
valve disease is a product of aging and
the American population gets older every
year so that we are seeing more and more
of alph disease with each passing year
at the same time we now have the ability
to replace heart valves through the skin
as opposed to requiring heart surgery at
least in some cases for all those
reasons this is an extremely exciting
time to be involved in the treatment of
valvular heart disease
we're really excited about the prospect
of stem cell therapy for treating
patients with heart failure as well as
other cardiovascular diseases one
extremely exciting development is that
this year in the third quarter the Heart
Institute will be meeting a worldwide
study to evaluate the effect of stem
cells in patients with heart failure
this is building on our prior experience
and if this trial shows what previous
trials have shown this will ultimately
lead to approval of therapy in the
United States and in Europe
and see the future today is is that with
the next few years maybe even a couple
of years it will be possible to have
every single individual's genetic
information at the bedside and that will
be hopefully utilized by clinicians who
have expertise in this area to benefit
of the patient in their care in their
diagnosis in their identification of
those who respond better to therapy in
identification of those who potentially
might develop the risk of side effects
up to drugs and health hopefully
therefore better treatment better
diagnosis are more specific treatment of
individuals and better outcome this is
the most exciting part of genetic
research today and we hope that tomorrow
that will be at the bedside applicable
to every single patient
heart disease and cancer often coexist
in the same patient it is not widely
know that cancer therapy can cause heart
problem we have we have identified the
causes of cancer in therapy in these
cardiovascular complications in the
future we'll be able to predict and
prevent and treat cancer patients
undergoing a therapy to particular heart
so that they can enjoy their life after
cancer therapy Women's Center is
actually beyond me at this point as
women as you know are dying in greater
numbers than men and I think it's time
that we step up to the plate and address
the needs and concerns of women
our ultimate goal is to develop a device
that we could take off the shelf and
implant in these great real patients
with heart failure it would not only
prolong their lives but restore them to
a full and active lifestyle because
there are six million Americans that
have heart failure and 350,000 of them
die every year so it's a huge unmet
clinical need we're addressing this with
a number of very innovative programs
right here at the Texas Heart Institute
in fact one device developed in this lab
has already been used to save thousands
of lives and the progress we're making
toward the development of the first
fully implantable continuous flow
artificial heart shows incredible
promise dr. Fraiser has devoted his
entire professional career to the
development of these devices and under
his leadership we'll continue to make
progress in the war against heart
disease
I feel so very fortunate and so proud to
be part this
the next 50 years will be very exciting
perhaps even more exciting than the last
50 years because the genes will be
identified and the most dangerous ones
knocked out will regenerate the whole
heart from stem cells will develop the
ability to predict heart attacks in
advance of their occurrence identifying
plaques and arteries that are dangerous
even if they don't lead to symptoms and
will have brand-new ways to treat every
imaginable cardiovascular disease until
it's gone
I'd encourage everybody to read and
learn as much about it as you can
because these people up here are doing a
fantastic a fantastic job